[Some generic installation instructions in English are at the end of 
 this text.]

Dieses Paket sollte sich vollständig selbst konfigurieren; ausprobiert
wurde es bis jetzt erfolgreich unter GNU/Linux und SunOS4.
Der normale Weg ist folgender:

 1) Auspacken

 Das Paket ist mit gzip und tar eingepackt. Auspacken geht am leichtesten 
 mit der GNU Version von tar ("gtar" am LS NT, "tar" unter Linux). Wechsel
 in ein Verzeichnis, das den Verzeichnisbaum von 'vaul' aufnehmen soll.
 Dieser Verzeichnisbaum dient nur zum Kompilieren; Wenn 'vaul' erfolgreich
 installiert worden ist, kann er wieder vollständig gelöscht werden.

 Mit der GNU Version von 'tar':

   tar xzf vaul-<datum>.tar.gz       (oder 'gtar ...')

 oder mit der Standardversion:

   gunzip -c vaul-<datum>.tar.gz | tar xf -

 Auf jeden Fall muß 'gzip' (und damit 'gunzip') installiert sein.

 Durch das Auspacken ist ein Unterverzeichnis "vaul-<datum>" angelegt
 worden, in dem sich alles weitere abspielt:

  cd vaul-<datum>
 
 2) Konfigurieren

 Das shell script "configure" versucht, automatisch Werte für ein paar
 Variablen zu finden, die das Paket beim Kompilieren an das vorhandene
 System anpassen. Aufruf mit:

  ./configure --prefix <Installations-Verzeichnis>

 Das <Intallations-Verzeichnis> ist das Verzeichnis, in das das Paket
 später installiert werden soll. Das könnte für eine private Installation
 z.B. das eigene Heimverzeichnis sein ("~") oder auch zur breiteren
 Benutzung ein Platz im System, an dem zusätzliche Software normalerweise
 installiert wird (z.B "/usr/local" oder "/nt"). Voreingestellt ist
 "/usr/local".

 Das Paket installiert sich in Unterverzeichnisse des <Installations-
 Verzeichnisses>, siehe "Installation" weiter unten für Details.

 Mit Linux und ELF können auch 'shared libraries' erzeugt werden. Dazu
 können 'configure' diese Optionen mitgegeben werden:

   --enable-shared        erzeugt zusätzlich zu den statischen libraries
                          noch shared libraries. Die Programme werden mit
                          den shared libraries gebunden.

   --disable-static       die static libraries werden nicht erzeugt, dafür
                          aber die 'geshärten'.

 Vorsicht: wenn man zuerst shared libraries benutzt hat, und dann auf
 static libraries umstellen will, sollte man die shared libraries
 löschen, damit sie nicht aus Versehen beim Linken benutzt werden.

 3) Übersetzen
 
 'vaul' ist in C++ geschrieben und benötigt deshalb einen C++ Compiler.
 Bis jetzt wurde nur GNU CC 2.6.3 und GCC 2.7.0 ausprobiert.
 In dieser Version des Pakets wird GNU Make benötigt. Unter Linux ist
 das normale "make" das GNU Make, am LS NT heißt es "gmake". Übersetzt
 wird dann einfach mit

  make               (oder 'gmake').

 4) Installation

 Die Installation erfolgt mit

  make install       (oder 'gmake install').

 Es kann auch jetzt noch das <Installations-Verzeichnis> angegeben werden:

  make install prefix=<Installations-Verzeichnis>   (oder 'gmake ...').

 Im <Installations-Verzeichnis> werden folgende Unterverzeichnisse
 angelegt und gefüllt:

   Verzeichnis   gefüllt mit      
   - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
      bin	 vau
                 v2c
                 ctree

      lib        libvaul.a
                 libvaulutil.a

      include:   vaul/*.h
                 vaulutil.h

 5) Dokumentation setzen [optional]

 Im Paket ist im Verzeichnis "doc" schon fertig gesetzte Dokumentation als
 ".dvi" Datei dabei. Um sie neu zu setzten benötigt man zusätzlich
 noch LaTeX (am besten mit deutschen Trennpattern), 'texi2dvi' und für die
 PostScript Version 'dvips'.

  make dvi LATEX=<LaTeX-Kommando>     (oder 'gmake ...')

 oder

  make ps LATEX=<LaTeX-Kommando>      (oder 'gmake ...')

 <LaTeX-Kommando> ist die Kommandozeile, mit der LaTeX aufgerufen werden
 soll, z.B. einfach "latex". Voreingestellt ist "glatex" (german latex)
 oder "latex", falls "glatex" nicht vorhanden ist.

Fertig.

Das Paket kann mit 'make uninstall' wieder entfernt werden.

Das "configure" shell script ist mit der GNU Autoconf Software
erstellt worden und hat noch eine Menge mehr zu bieten als hier nötig
ist. Es wäre zum Beispiel möglich, das Paket in einem anderen
Verzeichnis als dem Sourceverzeichnis zu übersetzen. Deshalb folgen
hier die allgemeinen Installationsanweisungen für Pakete, die
'autoconf' benutzen.

'configure --help' gibt eine Übersicht der angebotenen Optionen.


Basic Installation
==================

   These are generic installation instructions.

   The `configure' shell script attempts to guess correct values for
various system-dependent variables used during compilation.  It uses
those values to create a `Makefile' in each directory of the package.
It may also create one or more `.h' files containing system-dependent
definitions.  Finally, it creates a shell script `config.status' that
you can run in the future to recreate the current configuration, a file
`config.cache' that saves the results of its tests to speed up
reconfiguring, and a file `config.log' containing compiler output
(useful mainly for debugging `configure').

   If you need to do unusual things to compile the package, please try
to figure out how `configure' could check whether to do them, and mail
diffs or instructions to the address given in the `README' so they can
be considered for the next release.  If at some point `config.cache'
contains results you don't want to keep, you may remove or edit it.

   The file `configure.in' is used to create `configure' by a program
called `autoconf'.  You only need `configure.in' if you want to change
it or regenerate `configure' using a newer version of `autoconf'.

The simplest way to compile this package is:

  1. `cd' to the directory containing the package's source code and type
     `./configure' to configure the package for your system.  If you're
     using `csh' on an old version of System V, you might need to type
     `sh ./configure' instead to prevent `csh' from trying to execute
     `configure' itself.

     Running `configure' takes awhile.  While running, it prints some
     messages telling which features it is checking for.

  2. Type `make' to compile the package.

  3. Optionally, type `make check' to run any self-tests that come with
     the package.

  4. Type `make install' to install the programs and any data files and
     documentation.

  5. You can remove the program binaries and object files from the
     source code directory by typing `make clean'.  To also remove the
     files that `configure' created (so you can compile the package for
     a different kind of computer), type `make distclean'.  There is
     also a `make maintainer-clean' target, but that is intended mainly
     for the package's developers.  If you use it, you may have to get
     all sorts of other programs in order to regenerate files that came
     with the distribution.

Compilers and Options
=====================

   Some systems require unusual options for compilation or linking that
the `configure' script does not know about.  You can give `configure'
initial values for variables by setting them in the environment.  Using
a Bourne-compatible shell, you can do that on the command line like
this:
     CC=c89 CFLAGS=-O2 LIBS=-lposix ./configure

Or on systems that have the `env' program, you can do it like this:
     env CPPFLAGS=-I/usr/local/include LDFLAGS=-s ./configure

Compiling For Multiple Architectures
====================================

   You can compile the package for more than one kind of computer at the
same time, by placing the object files for each architecture in their
own directory.  To do this, you must use a version of `make' that
supports the `VPATH' variable, such as GNU `make'.  `cd' to the
directory where you want the object files and executables to go and run
the `configure' script.  `configure' automatically checks for the
source code in the directory that `configure' is in and in `..'.

   If you have to use a `make' that does not supports the `VPATH'
variable, you have to compile the package for one architecture at a time
in the source code directory.  After you have installed the package for
one architecture, use `make distclean' before reconfiguring for another
architecture.

Installation Names
==================

   By default, `make install' will install the package's files in
`/usr/local/bin', `/usr/local/man', etc.  You can specify an
installation prefix other than `/usr/local' by giving `configure' the
option `--prefix=PATH'.

   You can specify separate installation prefixes for
architecture-specific files and architecture-independent files.  If you
give `configure' the option `--exec-prefix=PATH', the package will use
PATH as the prefix for installing programs and libraries.
Documentation and other data files will still use the regular prefix.

   If the package supports it, you can cause programs to be installed
with an extra prefix or suffix on their names by giving `configure' the
option `--program-prefix=PREFIX' or `--program-suffix=SUFFIX'.

Optional Features
=================

   Some packages pay attention to `--enable-FEATURE' options to
`configure', where FEATURE indicates an optional part of the package.
They may also pay attention to `--with-PACKAGE' options, where PACKAGE
is something like `gnu-as' or `x' (for the X Window System).  The
`README' should mention any `--enable-' and `--with-' options that the
package recognizes.

   For packages that use the X Window System, `configure' can usually
find the X include and library files automatically, but if it doesn't,
you can use the `configure' options `--x-includes=DIR' and
`--x-libraries=DIR' to specify their locations.

Specifying the System Type
==========================

   There may be some features `configure' can not figure out
automatically, but needs to determine by the type of host the package
will run on.  Usually `configure' can figure that out, but if it prints
a message saying it can not guess the host type, give it the
`--host=TYPE' option.  TYPE can either be a short name for the system
type, such as `sun4', or a canonical name with three fields:
     CPU-COMPANY-SYSTEM

See the file `config.sub' for the possible values of each field.  If
`config.sub' isn't included in this package, then this package doesn't
need to know the host type.

   If you are building compiler tools for cross-compiling, you can also
use the `--target=TYPE' option to select the type of system they will
produce code for and the `--build=TYPE' option to select the type of
system on which you are compiling the package.

Sharing Defaults
================

   If you want to set default values for `configure' scripts to share,
you can create a site shell script called `config.site' that gives
default values for variables like `CC', `cache_file', and `prefix'.
`configure' looks for `PREFIX/share/config.site' if it exists, then
`PREFIX/etc/config.site' if it exists.  Or, you can set the
`CONFIG_SITE' environment variable to the location of the site script.
A warning: not all `configure' scripts look for a site script.

Operation Controls
==================

   `configure' recognizes the following options to control how it
operates.

`--cache-file=FILE'
     Use and save the results of the tests in FILE instead of
     `./config.cache'.  Set FILE to `/dev/null' to disable caching, for
     debugging `configure'.

`--help'
     Print a summary of the options to `configure', and exit.

`--quiet'
`--silent'
`-q'
     Do not print messages saying which checks are being made.

`--srcdir=DIR'
     Look for the package's source code in directory DIR.  Usually
     `configure' can determine that directory automatically.

`--version'
     Print the version of Autoconf used to generate the `configure'
     script, and exit.

`configure' also accepts some other, not widely useful, options.

